---
layout:        post
title:         "Planetary Interoperability Workshop 2016"
subtitle:      "EPSC-DPS interoperability session"
authors:       bcecconi
category:      Community
tags:          [VESPA, PDS, SPASE, Workshop]
slack_channel: europlanet-vespa
---

# Venue
+ Date: Sunday, October 16th, 2016
+ Time: 1pm to 4pm
+ Location: Caltech (Pasadena, CA) Cahill Building, room 370
+ Access Map: http://www.caltech.edu/map/cahill-center-for-astronomy-and-astrophysics

This workshop is replacing the regular "Planetary Interoperability" session that has been held at each EPSC meeting for several years. As it was not possible to include this session in the EPSC-DPS official program this year, we decided to organise a separate workshop. 

> ##  Workshop Scope
> The large amount of data generated by modern space missions calls for a change of organization of data distribution and access procedures. Although long term archives exist for telescopic and space-borne observations, high-level functions need to be developed on top of theses repositories to make Planetary Science and Heliophysics data more accessible and to favor interoperability. Results of simulations and reference laboratory data also need to be integrated to support and interpret the observations. Interoperable software and interfaces has recently been developed in many scientific domains. The Virtual Observatory (VO) interoperable standards developed for Astronomy by the International Virtual Observatory Alliance (IVOA) can be adapted to Planetary Sciences, as demonstrated by the VESPA (Virtual European Solar and Planetary Access) team within the Europlanet-H2020-RI project. Other communities have developed their own standards: GIS (Geographic Information System) for Earth and planetary surfaces tools, SPASE (Space Physics Archive Search and Extract) for space plasma, PDS4 (NASA Planetary Data System, version 4) and IPDA (International Planetary Data Alliance) for planetary mission archives, etc, and an effort to make them interoperable altogether is starting, including automated workflows to process related data from different sources.  
> The goal of this workshop is to have an overview of progresses in Planetary Sciences and Heliophysics interoperability frameworks, ongoing data management and distribution projects, and use cases of VO, GIS and SPASE applications with a focus on science activities and success stories.

# Converners
+ Baptiste Cecconi, LESIA, Observatoire de Paris, France
+ Angelo Pio Rossi, Jacbos Uni, Bremen, Germany
+ Stéphane Erard, LESIA, Observatoire de Paris, France
+ Daniel J Crichton, NASA-JPL, Pasadena, CA, USA

# [More info](https://voparis-confluence.obspm.fr/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=3047498)
